Voices of Mobile Dataset Reflection Final as of 12/30
DIG 540 Donna Ramer
 
For my modeling dataset, I decided to group individuals and groups who have made impressions on my hometown through their unique voices. I called the Database “Voices of Mobile,” for this reason. If I had both the time and experience, I would love to flesh this database out with links to both recordings and videos. Considerations for future iterations of the database were the basis for the fields in my primary recording table. As a librarian I felt genres represented would be an excellent way of organizing a much larger group of voices, so I chose to link it since I discovered early that one recording could have multiple genres. (This was especially evident looking at LC collections, For example something could be both a field recording and a chant or song or sermon.)  I chose to also document both year and permission in my recordings table to make sure I could easily collate copyright/public domain considerations for future iterations. I decided to anchor “by” year since most of my recording titles also contained the name of the main contributor prominently.
Most of my thorny issues were directly related to lack of knowledge and experience in manipulating the code, plus wanting an exhibit that didn’t violate any copyright issues with images. (Although repetition in coding is a “methodical madness” learning exercise for learning curve as it helps the environment become more intuitive, sometimes it was easy to get confused..)  In my original schema I had both contributor and genre in separate tables linked back to recording. I did this because I wanted to use the contributor data to display the images required for the project. My reasoning here was the idea of connecting “faces” to the voices creating another layer of manipulation and another experience within the exhibit / dataset.  As I started the final project I got stuck at several points trying to make a more complicated schema than examples we walked through, so I decided to pare-down my expectations and integrate contributor into the main recording table. I would imagine that deadlines for projects require this to happen often in the real coding world, until a later iteration can address the issue. Being a librarian and concerned with copyright, it also felt like a best-practice to use html tags to link to images rather than download and host them. 
I still wanted to remain true to the idea of faces with the voices, so I currently have the html tag written into the recording table / contributor column even though *this* is not a coding best practice. I think planning and implementation in the real world would likely need some padding of time if a project needed to be completed and run through several iterations for a client.  
Relationships abound! One contributor could have several different genres on a single recording (Eugene Walter - one to many), and many contributors could have many genres. I think digital curators, especially ones building exhibits,  need to consider what relationships and information to bring forward through the data.  The same with subjects (sort of an occupational hazard being a librarian), but I chose an economy of scale here given this learning environment. 
I would like to say a final word about perseverance and learning. For me, it helped sometimes to step away from the screen and let ideas steep about what was working/not working. I appreciate the opportunity, the time, and the consideration in learning this way. 
