The FreeDB datasets are relatively sparse when compared with the information Gracenote records. I’d like to propose an exhibition site for historical interviews that would be as effective and as predictive as Gracenote is for music. The Orrington Historical Society has a few files like these, currently stored on local machines, and I envision having a functional place to store and display them. I’d like to incorporate Gracenote’s ability to predict user interests in order to recommend other related interviews after a user listens to a given recording. I would incorporate some of the basic fields used in FreeDB, though I would separate the title and author fields (speaker, in this case). Some of the basic fields would be: track title, date recorded (MM/DD/YYYY, more specific than FreeDB’s year field), track summary, speaker (the person being interviewed), language, and interviewer. In the case of oral interviews, each “disc” (or each audio file) would only have one track, so the “track” refers to the interview. 

I’d like to elaborate on some of those fields by including speaker DOB, speaker biography, and interviewer title, which would refer to the interviewer’s job title or other affiliation with the historical society (i.e., President of OHS, Volunteer, Genealogist). There would be set categories for this field to avoid confusion, though I would leave an option for “Other.” I’d also include keywords, location (which would often be Orrington, but not always), transcription (optional, as in some cases we don’t have time to create a transcription), transcriptionist, date of transcription, language of transcription, recording device used, and copyright statement. I would hope that the keywords, as well as the speaker and interviewer fields, would create links between videos so that users could find related materials, just as they do in Gracenote. 

I have created a many to many relationship between “Track” and “Interviewer,” as there could be a number of interviewers in a given interview, and one interviewer would likely produce more than one interview. I’ve done the same with “Speaker” and “Track,” and “Speaker” and “Interviewer” for the same reason. I’ve pulled out a separate field for the transcription information so that I could create a one-to-one relationship between the “Transcription” and “Track” fields, as there will only be one transcription per track, and vice versa. If users wish to submit a correction to a given track, it will be subject to approval and the approved version will be the only one displayed on the website. With this in mind, I have also added a “Revisions” field, like we saw in FreeDB, to record how many times a transcription is revised. I also pulled out “Language,” as that was a field repeated under both transcription and track, and having it as a separate field will allow for interviews and transcriptions recorded in multiple languages. I pulled out Key Words as well, and created a separate field for Track_Keyword, establishing a many-to-many relationship between the track and the keywords. 
