009 Assignment Proposal

Define the Collection:
I have been an Archaeological Conservator for 25 years and have a collection
of  treatment reports and photo documentation for specific artifacts
I have conserved.  I reconfigured my business in 2000 under the name of Head Tide
Archaeological Conservation Laboratory.  This collection is a cross section of
favorite artifacts I have conserved since 2000.  I would like to have the
archaeologist to add information relating to the circumstances of discovering the
artifact and a museum curator to have the ability to add information regarding
the physical exhibitions this artifact was included in and why it was chosen (
i.e. what part of the exhibition narritive does the inclusion of this artifact
represent?) and a museum visitor to have the ability to ask question or express
comments regarding the artifact.  Since these artifacts come from diverse cultures,
an ability for foreign language translation will be important.

Archaeological sites can be targeted by looters.  I thought about using Neatline plugins
to show the specific location of the sites but rejected the option for security reasons.


The parts of the collection I can model using built-in Omeka plugin functions include:

1. Shared Shelf   https://omeka.org/add-ons/plugins/shared-shelf-link/
   a. This plugin allows users to publish image files and data records.  I am
   imagining at least 4 voices contributing to this exhibit:
       1.  Molly O'Guinness Carlson, Archaeological Conservator
       2.  Archaeologist
       3.  Museum Curator
       4. (Exhibit visitor... see Commenting plugin)

2.  Commenting  http://omeka.org/add-ons/plugins/commenting/
    a.  This plugin will allow an Exhibit visitor to add information such as questions
    or comments in regard to the exhibited artifact.

3.  Google Translate  https://omeka.org/codex/Plugins/GoogleTranslate
    a.  This plugin may not be a perfect translation of all elements in your site,
    but it does provide an easy way to make a site available to a diverse group of
    language speakers.


  The parts of the collection I cannot model using built-in Omeka plugins include:
  1.  A very, very generalized map of artifact origin: by Country, State, County or
    other vague descriptor to show generalized source location.

  2.  A  Collection repository  plugin that  lists where the physical artifact is
  being curated.
     a. Country, State, Museum
