Domestic History and Women's Pulps: Covers and Contents
Proposal by Araminta Matthews for DIG540 Omeka Collection
Submitted 11/28/2015


Background: For about a decade, I have invested in an obscure collection of historical ephemera
in the form of domestic history pulp magazines. Domestic history refers to a branch of history
not overly documented: the history related to the running and integration of a household. As
this was sometimes the domain of the woman, much of my collection of domestic history comes in
the form of women's magazines from the pulp era. Pulps referred to the paper-quality on which
they were printed (not intended to last beyond a few years), and so my collection of pulp
magazines spanning the decades between 1870 and 1925, with their fraying, newsprint pages,
are on the cusp of extinction in spite of my best archival efforts.

At the same time, magazines and their contents are subject to an intense array of complex
and tangled copyright laws preventing them from public display on the web without first
exploring expensive copyright searches for each individual item of content in a single issue (and I
have hundreds). I would love to archive this for posterity, committing the work to a digital
but private space until such time as they enter the public domain completely as my fear
of copyright infringement precludes a full archival process of the magazines in their entirety.

Having said that, a lot of data can be gleaned from simply reviewing the cover art of a
historical magazine and the Table of Contents. Where I have one collection of a single publication
that spaces from 1870 to 1923 (missing only a few), we could glean from the cover images a
certain inference of historical context (who is the cover model? is it in color? what is she
wearing (WWI nurse's uniform, for instance?) what color is her hair (if color)? what diversity
of ethnicity is demonstrated? Is it culturally affluent demonstration? What's the cover price?
has inflation affected the cover price exponentially or only periodically? who wrote articles
for each issue? can we cross-reference these authors against other magazines of the time in this
golden-age of publishing and the dream of printing one's story?)

Proposal: This Omeka Collection would pull together at least a single array of cover images
and Tables of Content for a period of 10-30 years of print for the "Modern Priscilla Magazine"
(and, eventually, also for "Needlepoint" magazine, and "Ladies Home Journal").

Schema: Organizing periodicals is hardly a new concept. Thus, there are several schemae that
can support this project. Creative Work's Periodical schema at https://schema.org/Periodical
has all the required components for the purposes of this collection (with some modification):
    1. Publisher
    2. Publication
    3. Date Created
    4. Author (if image art illustrator's name is found)
    5. Image (URL or JPG upload)
    6. Description (alt text of image)
    7. Mentions (to list Table of Contents)

Process (Standard Installation and Pre-Scripted Plug-ins):
1. Omeka Standard Installation
2. Plug-in: Digital Object Linker (to connect to cover art images from public domain sites)
3. Plug-in: Exhibit Builder (for dynamic exhibition)
4. Plug-in: Getty Suggest (the ToC should be dynamic; Getty Suggest could connect other aspects
  of the magazine's contents that might be found in the public domain or within Getty)
5. Plug-in: Neatline Time (to allow for integration of a cover-art timeline of the periodicals)


6. Plug-in: TO BE CUSTOM-CREATED:
      Connect to Ancestry or other Genealogy Resource
      This plug-in would allow a person to cross-reference a name search from a contributor
      to the issue against any census and/or other historical data on Ancestry or another
      Genealogical resource.
