Doodle-Minded
Proposal by Araminta Matthews for DIG540 Omeka Collection
Submitted 11/28/2015


Background: If you are like me, you may find yourself in a variety of intense meetings
throughout your work day. These meetings are, of course, critical to work and development,
but as a creatively-minded individual, you may find it hard to sit still for six out of
eight hours a day listening to others debate a puzzle you already solved by "playing around"
on your laptop last night while your partner watched Jeopardy! and your kid built a tower
out of blocks.

In these situations, what is a creatively-minded person to do? There's really only one
answer:

Doodle.

This collection will seek to gather a bevy of marginalia and doodlification of meeting
notes while, of course, redacting the proprietary meeting-information therein and focusing
entirely on the flowers, rain clouds, houses, eyeballs, and Mondrian-ian boxes drawn
in the corners of the paper. While exposing you to the fidget-worthy ink-ramblings of
a creative person exposed to "sitting still," I'll also show you the type of meeting
that generated the doodle (was it a weekly team meeting? a meeting with clients? students?
professors? colleagues? vendors?) as well as the personalities present at the meeting
(the pontificator? the silent guy who stares at his computer screen? the woman clearly
in two meetings at once (one from her phone), the debate-guy who picks a fight with
every idea? The caution-woman who aims to slow every project down to a craw?).

One unique feature of this collection will be a concurrent demonstration of the regional
weather occurring during that meeting. Was it raining the day that creative person
doodled those toadstools? Was it a sunny, 90-degree, July day in Maine when beach
weather lasts approximately 48 seconds and that creative person was instead stuck in
a meeting with fourteen sock-puppet vendors whilst she doodled those mermaids? Well!
You'll find out in the new Doodle-Minded Collection by Araminta.

Proposal: This Omeka Collection would pull together at least a single array of doodles,
collected in a variety of notebooks spanning at least 3 years of professional employment
in a highly creative career that is also often associated with 3-hour meetings full of
really smart people who also might perhaps be a smidge on the borderline of pedantic. Ahem.

Schema:This is almost entirely a graphic collection with some descriptions for each
doodle submitted
    1. Title
    2. Author
    3. Date Created
    4. Image (URL or JPG upload)
    6. Description (alt text of image)


Process (Standard Installation and Pre-Scripted Plug-ins):
1. Omeka Standard Installation
2. Plug-in: Flickr Import (image files will be hosted on Flickr to contain storage capacity)
3. Plug-in: Exhibit Builder (for dynamic exhibition)



4. Plug-in: TO BE CUSTOM-CREATED:
      This plug-in will connect to the National Weather Service. Based on the
      accompanying zip code of the doodle's entry in the database, this plug-in
      will cross-reference the regional weather against the creation-date for the
      doodle and display a weather report in conjunction with the object in the
      collection.
