Picking Locks and Picking Locks
Proposal by Araminta Matthews for DIG540 Omeka Collection
Submitted 11/28/2015


Background: I have several friends who work with network administration, security administration,
programming and coding, and web development, and there is a large swath of them who
entertain a passion for picking progressively harder locks. When I ask my friends what's the
appeal, they generally share the same response: "Picking a lock is like overcoming the security
measures within a program. The principles are the same. Knowing how they crack helps me to
ensure my programs are less vulnerable." Couple that with the vast number of homeowners I know,
each with a decent amount of property to protect, and we find that knowing what locks protect
what (and what it takes to "hack" them) can be beneficial both to the budding programmer and
to the property-protector.

Proposal: Drawing on the collection of locks held by this swath of programmer friends, I would
like to build an exhibit that demonstrates an image of the lock, the lock by name and price-point,
its consequent rating according to the proprietor of the brand, the rating from Underwriters
Laboratories (UL437), the picks necessary to pick the lock, and a user-rating to validate both
proprietary and UL437 rating systems. This collection will be built using Omeka's standard installation,
a few readily available plug-ins, and a custom-plug-in included below.

Theme: This exhibition will resemble a "character sheet" from a role-playing game. Each image of a
lock will be accompanied by its stats, "hit points," and the experience level necessary to
"defeat it."

Process (Standard Installation and Pre-Scripted Plug-ins):
1. Omeka Standard Installation
2. Plug-in: COMMENTING
    Users will be able to comment their experience with the lock, and/or ask questions
3. Plug-in: YOUTUBE IMPORT:
    Users will be able to connect to a Youtube video of the lock being picked



-- Basic Metadata: Dublin Core Metadata Initiative --

Title
Title as given to the piece by Tadao.

Subject
Topic of the piece. For this exhibition, all will be tagged as
“Fireworks display.”

Description
A description of the piece to include the date, the location, and enough
remarks for identification.

Creator
All will be tagged as “Tadao.”

Source
Physical location in the country for where the fireworks display was viewed.

Publisher
All will be tagged as “Sirk Adeki” who will curate this online exhibition.

Date
Date of viewed fireworks display from which the piece was derived.

Contributor
All will be tagged as “DIG540, 2015 Fall Edition” to recognize a major
resource contributor.

Rights
TO BE ENHANCED WITH NEW PLUG-IN

Relation
All will be tagged as “Tadao Studios.”

Format
Will refer to file format, physical medium and/or dimensions of the piece,
as applicable.

Language
All will be tagged as “English.”

Type
Tagged as “Digital Photography” or “Video Photography,” as applicable.

Identifier
Tagged as “Tadao Photography: A Sparkly Vision –“ to be followed by the
name of the piece.

Coverage
Tagged as “Tadao Photography: A Sparkly Vision.”

Bibliographic Citation
A reference note as composed by Omeka.

* Still Images *

Object Type Description
A static visual representation. All of Tadao’s still photography will be
tagged as Still Image.

Common Format Files: specifically, JPEG

-- Additional Metadata Elements --

Original Format
Digital Photograph

Resolution
Varies by image (pixels)

Dimensions
Varies by image (pixels)

Physical Dimensions
Not applicable

* Moving Images *

Description
A moving visual representation. All of Tadao’s videos will be tagged as
Moving Images.

Common Format Files: specifically, MP4

-- Additional Metadata Elements --

Transcription
Not applicable

Original Format
Digital video

Duration
Varies (seconds)

Compression
Varies

Producer
Tadao

Director
Tadao

* Required Plug-Ins *
Exhibit Builder

** New Plug-In **
Omeka.net (free version) only allows for text in the Rights metadata category.
To adhere to the contract with Tadao Studios, a new plug-in will be designed.

* Features *
Ability to watermark images, both thumbnails and full-size
Ability to link Creative Commons licenses, as necessary and applicable
Ability to disable right-click “Save Image As” function

-- Plug-In -- Additional Metadata --

Watermark Disabled
  Field has two options: Yes/No
    "Yes" invokes a watermark across the center of the image (thumbnails, full-size)
    "No" indicates no watermark

Rights
  Field holds a URL for a Creative Commons license or other similar site link

Disable Right-Click
  Field has two options: Yes/No
    Yes disables the right-click save option for an image
    No allows the right-click save option for an image
Status API Training Shop Blog About Pricing
© 2015 GitHub, Inc. Terms Privacy Security Contact Help
